LTE update (#26)
leanprover-community/blog: posts/lte-update.md

One of the crucial insights in the proof is that it is a quotient of an arithmetic analogue
that we've been calling the space of *Laurent measures*: `ℳ(S, ℤ((T))_{r'})`,
with `(1/2)^{p'} = r'`.
This quotient map turns out to be the cokernel of an injective endomorphism of the space of Laurent measures.
Together, these two maps form a short exact sequence,
which leads to a long exact sequence of `Ext`-groups.
This quotient map sits in a short exact sequence, together with its kernel.
Hence the vanishing of the `Ext`-groups above can be reduced to a question about similar `Ext`-groups
but this time involving these spaces of Laurent measures.

In turn, these spaces of Laurent measures naturally admit a free module as submodule,
and the quotient is the mysterious space `Mbar r' S` that appears in `first_target`.
Together, these two short exact sequences are crucial inputs
that will be combined with the homological tools mentioned above
to reduce the main theorem to `first_target`.

Filippo A.E. Nuccio has been working arduously on the formalization of these results,
which amounts to Theorem 6.9 of [Analytic.pdf](https://www.math.uni-bonn.de/people/scholze/Analytic.pdf).

> 

Reviewer: We did a lot of work in the Fall around the various categories of comphausly/profinitely filtered gadgets, which are related to these constructions. Do you want to mention these as well? I'm not so sure, since these are objects that generic mathematicians might not really care much about.

Author: Yeah, I agree. They might turn out to be notions that people will want to use in the future. But I didn't see how to mention them in this blogpost in a clear and concise way.

## Breen-Deligne resolutions and MacLane's Q'-construction

> Finally, to compute the `Ext`-groups, at some point projective or injective resolutions must enter the picture.

Reviewer: In this context, we will use projective resolutions, so I suggest:
```suggestion
Finally, to compute the `Ext`-groups, at some point projective resolutions must enter the picture.
```

The proof in [Analytic.pdf](https://www.math.uni-bonn.de/people/scholze/Analytic.pdf)
relies on so-called Breen-Deligne resolutions, which have the following two crucial properties:

1. It is a functorial construction `A ↦ C(A)` that sends an abelian group (or sheaf) to a complex of abelian groups (or sheaves).
2. When viewed as a functor to the homotopy category of complexes, it is additive.
  In other words, `C(A ⊕ A)` is naturally homotopic to `C(A) ⊕ C(A)`.

In addition to these properties,
Breen-Deligne resolutions have the favourable property that the construction yields a projective resolution `C(A)` for every `A`.

For our formalization project, they also come with the significant downside that the proof of the existence of Breen-Deligne resolutions
relies on technical results from homotopy theory,
which haven't been formalized yet.

> But to our delight, it turns out that there are constructions that satisfy (1) and (2) above,
> and that are good enough for our purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But to our delight, it turns out that there are related constructions that satisfy (1) and (2) above which are good enough for our purposes and which can be formalized directly.
```
The previous sentence was strange, because the B-D resolution mentioned above is such a construction to begin with.

> Indeed, there is a functorial complex known as MacLane's `Q'` construction,
> which satisfies the following result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed, the functorial complex known as "MacLane's `Q'` construction", is one such example,
which also satisfies the following result.
```
